# Astrophisics-project
Astrophisics projectabout Blackholes using Puthon and Gaia dataset
With the advent of gravitational wave astrophysics and advances in precise astrometry of numerous stellar sources, the search for compact objects is thriving. Rarely seen massive binaries containing a compact object play a vital role in the evolution towards compact object mergers. With Gaia Data Release 3 (DR3)1 , the first Gaia astrometric orbital solutions for binary sources have become available, revealing a large number of such binary candidates. In the present report, we are interested in the rare cases in which a black hole (BH) is evolving in a binary system with a Main Sequence star (MS). Since these systems are extremely difficult to observe, we deal with a small set of noninteracting BH+MS candidates, among which four are confirmed systems: BH1 (El-Badry et al., 2022), VFTS 243 (Shenar et al., 2022), HD130298 (Shenar, T. et al., 2022), BH2 (El-Badry et al., 2022). The comparison is made with respect to a larger dataset, obtained via SEVN (Stellar EVolution for N-body), a rapid binary population synthesis code (Iorio et al., 2022). It gets as input the initial conditions of stars or binaries (masses, spin, semi-major axis, eccentricity, etc.) and evolves them. Stellar evolution is calculated by interpolating pre-computed sets of PARSEC stellar tracks (Bressan et al., 2012). On the other hand, binary evolution is implemented by means of analytic and semi-analytic prescriptions. The implementation proves to be flexible, so that every model can be easily changed or updated. We aim to understand what kind of processes these systems are likely to experience during their lifetime: us1 https://www.cosmos.esa.int/web/gaia/data-release-3 ing machine learning techniques, such as Deep Neural Network and XGBoost, we tried to infer and label the properties of the known sources and understand the importance that each feature has had in the evolution of the systems. We tried, moreover, to match some of the candidates to the simulated systems in order to retrieve the guessed full evolution history of those candidates.
